Downloaded from
YTS.MX
[Olivia Rodrigo] How would I describe
this chapter of my life?
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
[screams]
[on radio]
♪ I got my driver's license last week ♪
♪ Just like we always talked about ♪
Oh. my God.
It's on the radio.
♪ To finally drive up to your house ♪
[radio deejay] You're listening
to the most popular song on the planet.
It's "drivers license" by Olivia Rodrigo.
♪ You weren't around-- ♪
It's been the absolute craziest week
of my life.
Wait.
so you're second semester senior year.
and you just released your first single?
Yeah. first semester. Yep.
Not even second.
I'm like dying over here.
Oh! For those of you just joining. I just
put out a song called "drivers license."
It's my first debut-- What do we call it?
Debut single?
This is. like. the first song that I wrote
from my perspective that is coming out.
It's number one in the world
on. like. all streaming platforms
and. like. breaking all these records.
My entire life just shifted in an instant.
My life is just so weird. Like. I don't--
Like. I moved out of my house.
I'm. like. not living with my parents.
My album's done.
I'm almost done with high school.
So weird.
It's all. like. happening at once.
[audio rewinds]
-[tape clicks]
-[audio stops]
Hi. I'm Olivia Rodrigo…
from California.
I just want to sing a little song
to my friends and family out there.
Starting now.
[film projector whirring]
[Rodrigo]
Being in Salt Lake makes me think so much
about the early days
when I first started writing Sour.
I've always loved writing
really emotional songs.
Like. I remember just writing these. like.
super angsty songs
about. like. how I didn't fit into society
or something. [chuckles]
I've always been so attracted
to music like that.
that. like. hits these. like. deep parts
of the human psyche.
I think being a songwriter is actually.
like. the best job and the best craft.
There's nothing that connects people
and there's nothing that is a truer window
into human emotion than music.
[keyboard playing]
["happier" playing]
♪ We broke up a month ago ♪
♪ Your friends are mine ♪
♪ You know I know
You've moved on ♪
♪ Found someone new ♪
♪ One more girl
Who brings out the better in you ♪
♪ And I thought my heart was detached ♪
♪ From all the sunlight of our past ♪
♪ But she's so sweet
She's so pretty ♪
♪ Does she mean you forgot about me? ♪
♪ Oh. I hope you're happy ♪
♪ Just not like how you were with me ♪
♪ I'm selfish. I know
I can't let you go ♪
♪ So find someone great
But don't find no one better ♪
♪ I hope you're happy
But don't be happier ♪
♪ Do you tell her ♪
♪ She's the most beautiful girl
You've ever seen? ♪
♪ An eternal love bullshit
You know you'll never mean ♪
♪ Remember when I believed ♪
♪ You meant it
When you said it first to me? ♪
♪ And now I'm picking her apart ♪
♪ Like cutting her down
Will make you miss my wretched heart ♪
♪ She's beautiful
She looks kind ♪
♪ She probably gives you butterflies ♪
♪ I hope you're happy ♪
♪ Just not like how you were with me ♪
♪ I'm selfish. I know
I can't let you go ♪
♪ So find someone great
But don't find no one better ♪
♪ I hope you're happy ♪
♪ I wish you all the best. really ♪
♪ Say you love her. baby
Not like you loved me ♪
♪ And think of me fondly
When your hands are on her ♪
♪ I hope you're happy
But don't be happier ♪
♪ I hope you're happy ♪
♪ Just not like how you were with me ♪
♪ I'm selfish. I know
I can't let you go ♪
♪ So find someone great
But don't find no one better ♪
♪ I hope you're happy
Just don't be happier ♪
[song ends]
[Rodrigo] So much of the album was written
between Salt Lake City and Los Angeles.
And so I thought it would be fun
to do a road trip one last time.
I wanna play the songs in these places
that meant so much to me.
and revisit them with older eyes. I guess.
I remember posting
the song "happier" online
and looking back on it and being like.
"Oh. my God. This song is terrible.
It got no likes. I sang it really badly.
Why did I do that?"
But I had this. like.
gut feeling to keep it up.
That feeling served me well. 'cause
that song changed everything for me.
The fact that I posted it
was the reason that I met Dan
'cause he found it and was like.
"Oh. my God. I love this song.
We should work together."
That was the first song that
we produced together. was-- was "happier."
Then I made the rest of my album with Dan.
There you go. It's on.
I just did it wrong.
[Nigro] I don't think that one's on.
[camera beeps]
[vocalizing]
[Nigro chuckles] Yes.
-[Rodrigo] What's that?
-The very first song we wrote together.
I don't wanna hear it.
I literally don't wanna hear it.
What is it?
[on speaker] ♪ Crying in the parking lot ♪
-[Rodrigo screams]
-[chuckles]
♪ You don't know what you want ♪
[Rodrigo] Sad Olivia! I was so sad!
♪ Gave you everything ♪
-♪ I guess everything ain't enough ♪
-[Rodrigo] Aw!
♪ You say you lost your best friend
How do you think I feel? ♪
♪ You say it's over again
And this time it's real ♪
-[song ends]
-[Nigro] Oh!
[Rodrigo] Oh. my God. I was so sad.
You don't know--
I was so sad when I wrote that song.
-Oh. my God.
-You were sad.
I remember that day. I was so **** sad.
-Really?
-Yeah.
-Wow. Interesting.
-It was a long time ago.
It was a long-- It was almost a year ago.
-I know.
-It's crazy.
-And I'm still not over it. Geez.
-[Nigro laughs]
[Rodrigo] This relationship was definitely
like the heartbreak that kept on giving.
[laughs] It was like I was
in the situation where I had to see him.
He was with someone else. which was…
[scoffs] …like. devastating to me.
Felt like my world was ending
almost every day.
Nobody understood how I was feeling
or related to it.
And so I think by writing songs
about exactly how I felt.
I was creating. like. a friend for me.
"jealousy. jealousy" was
the second song I wrote for the album.
And I remember writing it in a time
where I was just so obsessed
with social media in a very negative way.
and I hated the way it made me feel.
And I always felt misrepresented.
It's hard because it's. like--
Definitely will make you think about
how you wanna be perceived all the time.
You want people to look at you
for your talent and skill.
and you're also. you know. 18.
I want people to think I'm. like. pretty
and cool… [chuckles]
…and funny or whatever.
If you find yourself thinking
about that too much.
I think you get so disillusioned
from real life
and nothing good can come of that.
["jealousy. jealousy" playing]
♪ I kinda wanna throw my phone
Across the room ♪
♪ 'Cause all I see are girls
Too good to be true ♪
♪ With paper-white teeth
And perfect bodies ♪
♪ Wish I didn't care ♪
♪ I know their beauty's not my lack ♪
♪ But it feels like that weight
Is on my back ♪
♪ And I can't let it go ♪
♪ Co-comparison
Is killing me slowly ♪
♪ I think I think too much ♪
♪ 'Bout kids who don't know me ♪
♪ I'm so sick of myself ♪
♪ I'd rather be. rather be
Anyone. anyone else ♪
♪ My jealousy. jealousy
Started following me ♪
♪ Oh. oh. oh. oh. oh ♪
-♪ Started following me ♪
-♪ Oh. oh. oh. oh. oh ♪
♪ And I see everyone
Getting all the things I want ♪
♪ And I'm happy for them
But then again I'm not ♪
♪ Just cool vintage clothes
And vacation photos ♪
♪ I can't stand it
God. I sound crazy ♪
♪ Their win is not my loss ♪
♪ Yeah. I know it's true
But I can't help getting caught ♪
♪ Up in it all. yeah ♪
♪ Co-comparison
Is killing me slowly ♪
♪ I think I think too much ♪
♪ 'Bout kids who don't know me ♪
♪ And I'm so sick of myself ♪
♪ I'd rather be. rather be
Anyone. anyone else ♪
♪ My jealousy. jealousy ♪
♪ All your friends are so cool ♪
♪ You go out every night
In your daddy's nice car ♪
♪ Yeah. you're living the life ♪
♪ Got a pretty face
A pretty boyfriend too ♪
♪ I wanna be you so bad
And I don't even know you ♪
♪ All I see is what I should be ♪
♪ Happier. prettier. jealousy. jealousy ♪
♪ I'm losing it
All I get's jealousy. jealousy ♪
♪ Co-comparison
Is killing me slowly ♪
♪ I think I think too much ♪
♪ 'Bout kids who don't know me ♪
♪ And I'm so sick of myself ♪
♪ Rather be. rather be
Anyone. anyone else ♪
♪ Jealousy. jealousy ♪
♪ Oh. I'm so sick of myself ♪
♪ I'd rather be. rather be
Anyone. anyone else ♪
♪ Jealousy. jealousy
Started following me ♪
[song ends]
["1 step forward. 3 steps back" playing]
♪ I called you on the phone today ♪
♪ Just to ask you how you were ♪
♪ All I did was speak normally ♪
♪ Somehow I still struck a nerve ♪
♪ You got me **** up in the head. boy ♪
♪ Never doubted myself so much ♪
♪ Am I pretty. am I fun. boy? ♪
♪ I hate that I give you power
Over that stuff ♪
♪ 'Cause it's always one step forward
And three steps back ♪
♪ I'm the love of your life
Until I make you mad ♪
♪ Yeah. it's one step forward
And three steps back ♪
I'm hitting all the wrong keys.
[on phone] ♪ I'm an angel and the devil
But you're always a good man ♪
♪ Yeah. you're always the good man ♪
Those old lyrics. [laughs]
I-- I just wrote this song actually
the day before this guy broke up with me.
[laughs] So I remember. like--
I remember not being able to listen
to it for a while. [laughs]
[Rodrigo] "1 step forward. 3 steps back"
I wrote it in the car
on my way to Salt Lake City
with my mom. [chuckles]
I think loving someone
who is so inconsistent is so challenging
and just really anxiety-inducing
and makes you feel so insecure.
And it's a really tough thing to feel like
you're walking on eggshells around someone
who you just want. you know.
validation and love and support from.
You feel like you can never really settle
into that feeling
of being. like. loved and accepted.
[guitar plays]
♪ 'Cause it's always one step forward
And three steps back ♪
♪ I'm the love of your life
Until I make you mad ♪
♪ It's always one step forward
And three steps back ♪
♪ Do you love me. want me. hate me
Boy. I don't understand ♪
♪ No. I don't understand ♪
♪ And maybe in some masochistic way ♪
♪ I kind of find it all exciting ♪
♪ Like. which lover will I get today? ♪
♪ Will you walk me to the door
Or send me home crying? ♪
♪ It's always one step forward
And three steps back ♪
♪ I'm the love of your life
Until I make you mad ♪
♪ It's always one step forward
And three steps back ♪
♪ Do you love me. want me. hate me
Boy. I don't understand ♪
♪ No. it's back and forth
Did I say something wrong? ♪
♪ It's back and forth
Going over everything I said ♪
Did I do something wrong? ♪
♪ It's back and forth
Maybe this is all your fault instead ♪
♪ It's one step forward
And three steps back ♪
♪ And I'd leave you ♪
♪ But the roller coaster's
All I've ever had ♪
♪ It's always one step forward
And three steps back ♪
♪ Do you love me. want me. hate me
Boy. I don't understand ♪
♪ No. I don't understand ♪
[song ends]
July 13th. 2020.
"I got my driver's license today.
A very highly anticipated achievement.
All my relatives called
to congratulate me.
I realized part of the reason
I wanted to get my license so bad
was because of this boy.
I always felt bad about being too young
to drive over to see him.
too young to have any real freedom.
I thought he should be
with a girl who had those liberties.
I feel his hold on me loosen more
and more lately. That's a lovely feeling.
I'm still very much not able to fall
for anyone else though.
I can't even fathom it at the moment."
I remember knowing
that it might be something special.
if not to anyone else. just to me.
'cause I felt like that song
just really captured devastation
in a way
that I hadn't been able to capture before.
Second verse. it's the--
♪ Today I drove through the suburbs
And pictured I was driving home to you ♪
And that line can very literally be. like.
I was driving home. like.
to your house or whatever.
But I remember at that time I was really.
like. reconciling with the fact
that sometimes.
when you love a person so much
and you spend so much time with them.
like. that's who you feel the most
at home with.
And I remember listening to that song.
even when I hadn't put it out.
when I just had the demo on my phone.
and I'd drive around and listen to it.
Every time it came on.
my stomach would drop
just 'cause I felt like it was so…
like. so acutely. like. how I was feeling.
I think the worst part of being in love
is having something to lose.
Oh. that's a great answer.
-I-- I feel that way all the time.
-That's a great answer.
Even just in all aspects of my life.
like. even with my career. I'm like.
"Oh. my God. I'm so grateful
for all of these things happening."
But. like. when you have something
that's so amazing.
like. it just feels kind of scary
'cause it's like.
"What happens if-- if that goes away?"
[Collier] How do you take something
that happens in your life--
It could be really good or really intense.
And how do you transform that
into something like a song?
I don't know. For me and. like.
my style of songwriting and music is
sometimes it gets a little overwhelming.
I think that sometimes storytelling
doesn't necessarily have to come
-from a place of devastation.
-Yes.
Which is what I'm trying to tell myself
for the rest of my career.
I'm terrified that since I'm not gonna be
devastated for the rest of my life.
-I'm no longer gonna make a good album.
-What's your inspiration?
-Yeah. exactly.
-Yeah. yeah.
[Collier] I don't know if I've ever heard
a song that really encapsulates that more
than "drivers license."
And it just feels like
you're living that out.
[Rodrigo] Mmm. Thank you.
[Collier] In a good and painful way.
[keyboard playing]
♪ I got my driver's license last week
Something we always talked about ♪
♪ 'Cause you were so excited for me
To finally drive up to your house ♪
♪ But today I drove through the suburbs
Crying 'cause you weren't around ♪
["drivers license" continues playing]
[Rodrigo] I think I'm still as innocent
as I was when "drivers license" came out.
♪ Probably with that brunette girl ♪
♪ The one I always thought about ♪
I don't know. Maybe I--
Maybe I am. like. a little hardened now.
♪ She's so much older than me
She's everything I'm insecure about ♪
I don't know. I think. like. to my core
I'm still the same person.
I'm still sensitive and emotional
and caring. hopefully.
So much has happened.
making life completely different now.
It's. like. weird to think about.
♪ But I've never felt this way
For no one ♪
But I think I'll always write songs.
I think it's. like. my form of expression
and my way of. you know.
making sense of the world.
♪ Just tell me that you really meant ♪
♪ The words you wrote about me
In that song ♪
[song ends]
-["drivers license" playing]
-[Rodrigo] Okay. Here it is.
♪ And all my friends are tired
Of hearing how much I miss you ♪
♪ I kinda feel sorry for them ♪
♪ 'Cause they'll never know you
The way that I do ♪
♪ Yeah
Today I drove through the suburbs ♪
♪ And pictured I was driving home to you ♪
♪ And I know we weren't perfect
But I've never felt this way ♪
♪ For no one ♪
♪ And I just can't imagine
How you could be so okay ♪
♪ Now that I'm gone ♪
♪ I guess you didn't mean
What you wrote in that song about me ♪
♪ 'Cause you said forever
Now I drive alone past your street ♪
♪ Red lights
Stop signs ♪
♪ I still see your face ♪
♪ In the white cars ♪
♪ Front yards ♪
♪ Can't drive past the places ♪
♪ We used to
Go to ♪
♪ 'Cause I still **** love you. babe ♪
♪ Ooh. ooh ♪
♪ Sidewalks
We crossed ♪
♪ I still hear your voice ♪
♪ In the traffic
We're laughing ♪
♪ Over all the noise ♪
♪ God. I'm so blue
Know we're through ♪
♪ But I still **** love you. babe ♪
♪ Ooh. ooh ♪
[Rodrigo. crowd]
♪ And I know we weren't perfect ♪
♪ But I've never felt this way ♪
♪ For no one ♪
-[crowd cheers]
-[Rodrigo] Sing it!
[crowd] ♪ And I just can't imagine
How you could be so okay ♪
♪ Now that I'm gone ♪
[Rodrigo. crowd]
♪ I guess you didn't mean ♪
♪ What you wrote in that song about me ♪
♪ 'Cause you said forever
Now I drive alone past your street ♪
[crowd cheers]
[Rodrigo. crowd]
♪ Yeah. you said forever ♪
♪ Now I drive alone past your street ♪
-[song ends]
-[crowd cheers]
-[tape clicks]
-[cheering fades]
[Rodrigo] The success of "drivers license"
changed everything.
I went from performing it alone
in my bedroom or in the studio with Dan
to performing it live in these super high-
stakes environments for the first time.
It was very intense.
Having a big song like that.
you put it out and you're also like.
"Oh. my God. this is amazing."
And then everyone's like. "What's next?
Can you follow it up? What's coming next?"
And you're like.
"Jesus. like… [chuckles] …I just did this.
Like. can-- can't this be enough?"
Did we talk about making an album?
Did I run that by you?
-No. No. you didn't.
-No?
You didn't talk to me about it.
You just. like. literally--
I just was like. "I'm making an album.
You wanna do it. Dan?"
It was just like. "Hey. we're going.
We're making an album."
I remember you called me stressed out
in Salt Lake City one day.
And you were just like.
"You gotta come here now."
And I was like. "Oh. okay.
All right. Let's go. Let's do it."
I probably made the call to my label
that I wanted to make an album
like a week
after "drivers license" came out.
I was like. "Oh. shoot. Like.
there are gonna be so many more people
that are listening to this music
than I initially thought.
And I really wanna put
my best foot forward."
Made the call. and they were all.
"I don't know about that."
But I was. like.
so dead set and determined.
♪ So. when you gonna tell her
That we did that too? ♪
♪ She thinks it's special ♪
♪ But it's all reused ♪
♪ That was our place
I found it first ♪
♪ I made the jokes
You tell to her ♪
♪ When she's with you
Do you get déjà vu? ♪
In this album.
and in "deja vu" in particular.
I'm. like. very obsessed
and. like. weirded out
with the idea of all relationships
just being so recycled.
'Cause I think I was just learning about
relationships and love for the first time.
And I was. "Wait. none of it is special.
Like. it happens over and over and over."
When Dan and I wrote "deja vu" together.
we really wanted to write a song
that was really vivid and specific.
And I think
"deja vu" really accomplishes that.
Especially in the verses.
Really paints a picture.
And I think specificity
and also authenticity
are my two favorite things
that a song can have.
And I learned that
from country music. I think.
I think country music songs are always
very specific and authentic.
and I think that's why they're
so heartbreaking sometimes.
If I write a song
and it doesn't have those things.
I generally don't really love it.
I. to be completely honest.
did not wanna put this song out
after "drivers license."
I remember thinking it was a bad song.
and I didn't like it.
and no one's going to like it.
And I remember. like. calling my manager
like three. four days
before we announced "deja vu"
was coming out and being like.
"Pull the plug. I don't want to do it.
I can't do it. I hate it."
I like the song now.
but "drivers license" was obviously
so well received.
The thought of coming out
with another song. that was fairly scary.
"deja vu" was a completely different song
than "drivers license" too.
in every single way.
There was so much drama that was
around "drivers license" and so much hate.
I. like. thought if I put this song out.
then I was also. like. playing into this.
like. drama. love triangle.
like. "let's hate on other girls" thing.
and I just did not wanna do that.
And that was-- I never write any
of my songs from that point of view
'cause that's not something that I feel.
I feel like I've given so many notes.
It's just the same notes.
Just in my head about it.
I'm just always gonna find things.
I need to pull the trigger and do it.
[Morris on phone] If it makes you
feel any better. I am the same way.
-Yeah.
-Every time I listen to "drivers license."
-I'm like. "No. I should have done this!"
-[Rodrigo chuckles]
Blah. blah. blah. But it's
the biggest **** song in the world.
-Yeah.
-Everybody loves it.
and nobody hears anything wrong with it.
-Yeah.
-So…
Yes.
["deja vu" playing]
♪ Car rides to Malibu ♪
♪ Strawberry ice cream ♪
♪ One spoon for two ♪
♪ And trading jackets ♪
♪ Laughing 'bout
How small it looks on you ♪
[backing singers] ♪ Ha-ha-ha-ha
Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. ha-ha-ha-ha ♪
♪ Watching reruns of Glee ♪
♪ Being annoying ♪
♪ Singing in harmony ♪
♪ I bet she's bragging ♪
♪ To all her friends
Saying you're so unique ♪
♪ So when you gonna tell her
That we did that too? ♪
♪ She thinks it's special
But it's all reused ♪
♪ That was our place
I found it first ♪
♪ I made the jokes
You tell to her ♪
♪ When she's with you
Do you get déjà vu? ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ Do you get déjà vu?
Oh ♪
♪ Do you call her
And almost say my name ♪
♪ 'Cause let's be honest
We kinda do sound the same ♪
♪ Another actress ♪
♪ Well. I hate to think
That I was just your type ♪
♪ And I'll bet that she knows Billy Joel
'Cause you played her "Uptown Girl" ♪
♪ You're singing it together now ♪
♪ I bet you even tell her how
You love her ♪
♪ In between the chorus and the verse ♪
♪ So when you gonna tell her
That we did that too? ♪
♪ She thinks it's special
But it's all reused ♪
♪ That was the show
We talked about ♪
♪ Played you the song
She's singing now ♪
♪ When she's with you
Do you get déjà vu? ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ Do you get déjà vu? ♪
[on radio]
♪ Strawberry ice cream in Malibu ♪
♪ Don't act like
We didn't do that shit too ♪
♪ You're trading jackets
Like we used to do ♪
♪ Yeah. everything is all reused ♪
♪ Play her piano. but she doesn't know ♪
♪ That I was the one
Who taught you Billy Joel ♪
♪ It's a different girl now
But there's nothing new ♪
♪ I know you get déjà vu ♪
-[car turns off]
-[song ends]
I was thinking a lot about this idea of.
in order to get over a heartbreak.
I think you have to forgive
that person who caused you pain.
but I think also a big part of it
is forgiving yourself.
I found this little poem
that I wrote in my Notes app on my phone.
"I know that I loved you so bad.
I let you treat me like that."
I really liked that.
I thought it grabbed you.
So we made it the first line of the song.
[Nigro] I think you need to try that.
♪ Oh. look-- ♪
♪ Look what we be-- ♪
♪ Look what we be--
Oh. look what we be-- ♪
Okay. Let's do it. Okay.
[Nigro] A little more angsty!
-I can do that.
-Get mad!
You're angry right now.
-There is a crime that has been committed…
-[Rodrigo chuckles]
…and you're happy and you're sad about it.
There's so many confusing feelings.
I really like the lyric
"One heart broke. four hands bloody."
Having the blame be on two people.
You know. heartbreak is a two-way street.
You couldn't have gotten your heart broken
if you didn't put yourself
in the position to be hurt.
I think writing this song
sort of helped me forgive myself.
[a cappella]
♪ Know that I loved you so bad ♪
♪ I let you treat me like that ♪
♪ I was your willing accomplice. honey ♪
♪ I watched as you fled the scene ♪
♪ Doe-eyed as you buried me ♪
♪ One heart broke. four hands bloody ♪
-♪ Oh. the things I did ♪
-[electric guitar plays]
♪ Just so I could call you mine ♪
♪ The things you did ♪
♪ Well. I hope I was your favorite crime ♪
♪ Used me as an alibi ♪
♪ I crossed my heart
As you crossed the line ♪
♪ And I defended you to all my friends ♪
♪ And now every time a siren sounds ♪
♪ I wonder if you're around ♪
♪ 'Cause you know
That I'd do it all again ♪
♪ Oh. the things I did ♪
♪ Just so I could call you mine ♪
♪ The things you did ♪
♪ Well. I hope I was your favorite crime ♪
♪ And it's bittersweet
To think about the damage that we'd do ♪
♪ 'Cause I was going down
But I was doing it with you ♪
♪ Yeah. everything we broke
And all the trouble that we made ♪
♪ But I say that I hate you
With a smile on my face ♪
♪ Oh. look what we became ♪
♪ Oh. the things I did ♪
♪ Just so I could call you mine ♪
♪ Oh. oh. oh ♪
♪ Oh. the things you did ♪
♪ Well. I hope I was your favorite crime ♪
♪ Your favorite crime ♪
♪ 'Cause baby you were mine ♪
[guitar fades]
[car approaching]
[Rodrigo] "good 4 u" is another song
that I wrote sort of on a whim.
I love how this song expresses
anger and pettiness
in a way that's more funny
and tongue-in-cheek
rather than. like. aggressive and mean.
I actually think it's more impactful
without the stuff on that.
[Nigro] So take it out?
♪ You will never have to hurt
The way you know that I do ♪
-I think it's better without.
-Can you do that again?
♪ Way you know that I do ♪
-[Nigro chuckles]
-That one.
-[Rodrigo] Did that help?
-[Nigro] Yes. it helped.
[Rodrigo] Um. I think it's more impactful
without that stuff on there.
[on speaker] ♪ You will never have to hurt
The way you know that I do ♪
[Nigro] Even the lower one in there?
The little demon that I have going.
-I don't like it. Take the demon out.
-You don't like the demon?
[distorted]
♪ Well. screw that and screw you ♪
♪ You will never have to hurt
The way you know that I do ♪
-[chuckles] Need to have it.
-I love that. That's the song.
-We have Satan in the song. you know?
-Just take it out.
At least let me hear it.
["good 4 u" playing]
[Rodrigo] ♪ Well. good for you
I guess you moved on really easily ♪
♪ You found a new girl
And it only took a couple weeks ♪
♪ Remember when you said
That you wanted to give me the world ♪
♪ And good for you. I guess
That you've been working on yourself ♪
♪ I guess that therapist
I found for you. she really helped ♪
♪ Now you can be a better man
For your brand-new girl ♪
♪ Good for you
You look happy and healthy. not me ♪
♪ If you ever cared to ask ♪
♪ Good for you ♪
♪ You're doing great out there
Without me. baby ♪
♪ God. I wish that I could do that ♪
♪ I've lost my mind
I've spent the night ♪
♪ Crying on the floor of my bathroom ♪
♪ You're so unaffected
I really don't get it ♪
♪ But I guess good for you ♪
♪ Oh. oh. oh. oh ♪
♪ And good for you ♪
♪ I guess you're getting
Everything you want ♪
♪ You bought a new car
And your career's really taking off ♪
♪ It's like we never even happened. baby ♪
♪ What the **** is up with that? ♪
♪ And good for you
It's like you never even met me ♪
♪ Remember when you swore to God
I was the only ♪
♪ Person who ever got you? ♪
♪ Well. screw that and screw you ♪
♪ You will never have to hurt
The way you know that I do ♪
♪ Well. good for you
You look happy and healthy. not me ♪
♪ If you ever cared to ask ♪
♪ Good for you ♪
♪ You're doing great out there
Without me. baby ♪
♪ God. I wish that I could do that ♪
♪ I've lost my mind
I've spent the night ♪
♪ Crying on the floor of my bathroom ♪
♪ You're so unaffected
I really don't get it ♪
♪ But I guess good for you ♪
♪ Maybe I'm too emotional ♪
♪ Your apathy's like a wound in salt ♪
♪ Or maybe you never cared at all ♪
♪ Maybe I'm too emotional ♪
♪ Your apathy's like a wound in salt ♪
♪ Or maybe you never cared at all ♪
♪ Well. good for you ♪
♪ You look happy and healthy. not me ♪
♪ If you ever cared to ask ♪
♪ Good for you ♪
♪ You're doing great out there
Without me ♪
♪ Like a damn sociopath ♪
♪ I've lost my mind
I've spent the night ♪
♪ Crying on the floor of my bathroom ♪
♪ You're so unaffected
I really don't get it ♪
♪ But I guess good for you ♪
♪ Well. good for you
I guess you moved on really easily ♪
[song ends]
[Rodrigo] I was thinking
about how I wrote "enough for you."
and I actually wrote it
on my bedroom floor in Salt Lake City.
looking into a full-length mirror.
Like. I was on my guitar.
playing to myself in the mirror.
which I think is really funny considering.
like. the themes of the song.
I just think. at the time.
I was just feeling
this soul-crushing inferiority.
An inferiority that I think only occurs
when you. like. are really deeply in love
with someone.
And. you know. feeling like
you aren't good enough for someone
who is your absolute world
is. like. so. so crushing.
But I really like
how the song sort of starts
in this really self-deprecating place.
and sort of becomes a little more hopeful
at the end.
♪ 'Cause all I ever wanted
Was to be enough ♪
♪ But I don't think anything
Could ever be enough ♪
♪ For you ♪
♪ Enough for you ♪
[vocalizes]
♪ No. nothing's enough for you ♪
-[whimpers]
-What's wrong?
I'm so sad about it. I don't know.
[clears throat]
You don't like this either?
-I don't know.
-What don't you like about it?
'Cause it's just like every other song
I have on the record.
just different words.
Okay. You want it to be electric guitar?
[Rodrigo chuckles]
Is that gonna help?
I don't know.
Okay.
That was. like. towards. like. the end
of the album making process.
And I just remember listening
to that song and being like.
"Everything's wrong with this song."
And I love the song
and the lyrics and the melody.
but I just remember like.
"The guitar is not right.
It's out of tempo.
I don't like it. I can't sing it well.
Like. dah. dah. dah."
There's so many issues with it in my head.
[Rodrigo] I don't know. I just wish some
of the bits were more emotional.
I feel like if you're not
closely paying attention to the lyrics.
you. like. wouldn't understand.
like. what was going on.
[Nigro] I think you're overthinking that
like crazy.
-[Morris] I agree. It's so emotional.
-[Nigro] Like crazy.
[person] It really is.
[Morris] It's so emotional. It literally.
like. breaks me every time I hear it.
[Rodrigo chuckles]
Being a child actor.
where you're constantly told
everything you do is amazing.
you did the bare minimum and they're like.
"Oh. you're a star."
And I was always. like.
really disillusioned by that
from a very young age.
I was like.
"They're just gonna tell me whatever."
And so. I kind of. like.
went to the other side of the spectrum.
and started thinking
that everything that I did was really bad.
And started being. like. my own critic
and being like.
"No. you can always do better.
Always do better."
Never accepted when anyone told me
that I did a good job.
I remember really gravitating
towards my dad in that time
'cause he was the only person
who I felt. like. would tell me the truth.
and that was really hard
for me to grapple with at a young age.
feeling like you couldn't trust anyone
and no one was gonna tell you
if you were messing up.
I also think Dan is like that for me too.
Dan's very much someone in my life
who will be. like. unabashedly like.
"No. you shouldn't do that.
I wouldn't do that if I were you."
Which I. like. really appreciate.
'cause not a lot of people care enough
to be honest with people.
You know what I mean?
I think there's a certain level of care
and kindness
that goes with having the courage
to. like. help someone like that.
["enough for you" playing]
♪ I wore makeup when we dated
'Cause I thought you'd like me more ♪
♪ If I looked like the other prom queens
I know that you loved before ♪
♪ Tried so hard to be
Everything that you liked ♪
♪ Just for you to say
You're not the compliment type ♪
♪ And I knew how you took your coffee
And your favorite songs by heart ♪
♪ I read all of your self-help books
So you'd think that I was smart ♪
♪ Stupid. emotional. obsessive little me ♪
♪ I knew from the start
This is exactly how you'd leave ♪
♪ You found someone more exciting
The next second you were gone ♪
♪ And you left me there crying
Wondering what I did wrong ♪
♪ And you always say I'm never satisfied
But I don't think that's true ♪
♪ 'Cause all I ever wanted
Was to be enough for you ♪
♪ Yeah. all I ever wanted
♪ And maybe I'm just not as interesting
As the girls you had before ♪
♪ But God. you couldn't have cared less
About someone who loved you more ♪
♪ I'd say you broke my heart
But you broke much more than that ♪
♪ Now I don't want your sympathy
I just want myself back ♪
♪ Before you found someone more exciting
The next second you were gone ♪
♪ And you left me there crying
Wondering what I did wrong ♪
♪ And you always say I'm never satisfied
But I don't think that's true ♪
♪ 'Cause all I ever wanted
Was to be enough ♪
♪ And don't you think I loved you too much
To be used and discarded? ♪
♪ Don't you think I loved you too much
To think I deserve nothing? ♪
♪ But don't tell me you're sorry. boy
Feel sorry for yourself ♪
♪ 'Cause someday I'll be everything
To somebody else ♪
♪ They'll think that I am so exciting ♪
♪ Then you'll be the one who's crying ♪
♪ Yeah
You always say I'm never satisfied ♪
♪ But I don't think that's true ♪
♪ You say I'm never satisfied
But that's not me. it's you ♪
♪ 'Cause all I ever wanted
Was to be enough ♪
♪ But I don't think anything
Could ever be enough ♪
♪ For you ♪
♪ Enough for you ♪
[vocalizes]
♪ No. nothing's enough for you ♪
[song ends]
[gentle piano playing]
[Nigro] What's that?
[Rodrigo] No clue.
-[Rodrigo] You ready?
-[Nigro] I think so.
♪ You betrayed me ♪
♪ And I know
That you'll never feel sorry ♪
♪ For the way I hurt. yeah ♪
[both]
♪ You talked to her ♪
[Nigro]
I think you're right. I don't like--
[Nigro sighs] There's gotta be…
♪ The way I hurt. yeah ♪
♪ You talked to her
When we were together ♪
♪ Loved you at your worst
But that didn't matter ♪
[laughs]
[Rodrigo] "traitor" is one of my
favorite songs I've ever written. I think.
I really like the line.
"I guess you didn't cheat.
but you're still a traitor."
'Cause I think it's a really concise way
of expressing
that super painful feeling of betrayal
that you get
when someone you knew so well
moves on so quickly.
And I think that's the hardest part
about being a songwriter sometimes.
is diving into
those really painful emotions.
I think you can never lie to yourself
when you're writing a song.
At least. it's hard for me.
[engine stops]
[pedal clicks]
-["traitor" playing]
-[piano plays]
-[pedal clicks]
-[piano loops]
[clicks]
-[beat thumps]
-[piano loops]
-[clicks]
-[piano. beat loop]
[guitar strums]
-[pedal clicks]
-[piano. beat. guitar loop]
[pedal clicks]
[vocalizes]
-[pedal clicks]
-[piano. beat. guitar. vocals loop]
[clicks]
[guitar melody plays]
-[clicks]
-[all parts loop]
♪ Brown. guilty eyes
And little white lies. yeah ♪
♪ I played dumb. but I always knew ♪
♪ That you talked to her maybe
Did even worse ♪
♪ I kept quiet so I could keep you ♪
♪ And ain't it funny ♪
♪ How you ran to her
The second that we called it quits? ♪
♪ Ain't it funny ♪
♪ How you said you were friends?
Now it sure as hell don't look like it ♪
♪ You betrayed me ♪
♪ And I know that
You'll never feel sorry ♪
♪ For the way I hurt. yeah ♪
♪ You talked to her
When we were together ♪
♪ Loved you at your worst
But that didn't matter ♪
♪ It took you two weeks
To go off and date her ♪
♪ Guess you didn't cheat
But you're still a traitor ♪
[vocalizes]
♪ God. I wish that you
Had thought this through ♪
♪ Before I went and fell
In love with you ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ And when she's sleeping
In the bed we made ♪
♪ Don't you dare forget about the way ♪
♪ You betrayed me ♪
♪ 'Cause I know that
You'll never feel sorry ♪
♪ For the way I hurt. yeah ♪
♪ You talked to her
When we were together ♪
♪ You gave me your word
But that didn't matter ♪
♪ It took you two weeks
To go off and date her ♪
♪ Guess you didn't cheat
But you're still ♪
♪ You're still a traitor ♪
♪ Yeah. you're still a traitor ♪
[vocalizes]
♪ God. I wish that you
Had thought this through ♪
♪ Before I went and fell
In love with you ♪
[song ends]
So Dan and I are just.
like. losing our minds. And…
-[both laugh]
-[person on phone] About what?
And we wanna put one more upbeat song
on the record.
Hold on. hold on. hold on.
This is not a "we" conversation.
I wanna put one more upbeat--
Olivia wants one more upbeat song
on the record.
And we can't choose which song.
[person] What do you mean?
Like. we've been just going through songs
that are on my Voice Memos.
What's it like when you have five days
to choose a track listing.
and you change your mind every day?
I'm not changing my mind every day!
I've always wanted one more upbeat song!
[piano playing]
[Rodrigo singing]
♪ I got my driver's license ♪
Is it B or is it…
[piano plays lower key]
-♪ Driver's license-- ♪
-No. it's B-flat.
-[Rodrigo] Yeah. it's B-flat.
-Ah. Okay.
Should we-- We should write a song.
We could write a song today.
-[Nigro] In what? In…
-In G-sharp minor.
-[guitar strumming]
-[Rodrigo sings indistinctly]
-[Rodrigo] What's that?
-I don't know.
It's cool.
-[Rodrigo hums]
-[Nigro] Oh.
-[Rodrigo] What? So good.
-I'm gonna record it so I don't forget it.
So good.
[Rodrigo singing indistinctly]
♪ Well. I
I wanna cry now ♪
So good. Dan. I love it.
[singing indistinctly]
♪ Na na. na na
Tell me so ♪
[both sing]
[Nigro] Then right here you got…
[sings falsetto]
[both sing]
[Rodrigo sings indistinctly]
-[Nigro] Pretty fun.
-I love that.
[Rodrigo] It'd be cool
to have a song called "brutal."
And I was like.
"What if the hook is like--"
Like the verses are like. [vocalizes]
"People are mean. world is cruel."
And then. like. the hook--
The thing is like.
"God. it's brutal out here."
-I like that. "It's brutal out here."
-You like that? Yeah.
It's. like. punky.
Sure. I like that.
I actually do like that.
-Okay.
-I like that. I like that.
God. it's brutal out here.
Um.
"brutal." um. take 1. And the only take.
We wrote this yesterday.
[Nigro] All right.
Do you have latency or are you good?
-I'm so-- I don't-- I can't hear it.
-You can't hear-- Oh. right. because…
Try now.
♪ I'm so insecure I think
That I'll die before I drink ♪
-Good.
-Is that cool?
I'm just gonna eat the shit
out of the mic.
-Eat the shit out of it.
-[headphones: music plays]
It's four. right?
-Four times. Give it to me. Three. Nine!
-[laughs]
♪ I'm so insecure I think
That I'll die before I drink ♪
♪ I'm so caught up in the news
Of who likes me and who hates you ♪
♪ I'm so tired that I might
Quit my job. start a new life ♪
♪ And they'd all be so disappointed
'Cause I'm the girl that they exploited ♪
♪ And I'm so sick of 17
Where's my **** teenage dream? ♪
♪ If someone tells me one more time
Enjoy your youth. I'm gonna cry ♪
♪ And I wish I was someone else
I'm anxious and no one can help ♪
♪ And I wish I'd done this before
And I wish people liked me more ♪
It's such a good song. Dan. I'm so glad--
-I'm so glad we made this just on a whim.
-[laughs]
Why not? Have fun. right?
-Yeah.
-Is that what we're here for?
-No. there's no fun in making music ever.
None. Especially our music.
-It's very serious.
-[Rodrigo groans] Depressing.
[Rodrigo]
I remember just feeling kind of trapped
and kind of. like. flung into
this situation that I wasn't prepared for.
It was very. like. overnight.
Like. all of a sudden.
everyone's watching you.
and I'm like. "Oh. my God.
Did I actually ever want this?"
It's. like. the big question.
And I remember. like. loving the
"Who am I if not exploited?" line.
And I felt so-- I felt so angsty about it
when I. like. wrote it.
And I was like.
"Yes. it's exactly what I want to say."
That. like. period of my life
was very strange.
And I remember feeling. like. lonely.
And I remember
wanting a boyfriend very bad.
And I remember that was. like.
during a time
where I. like. kind of looked through.
like. what people said about me.
like. online or in print.
And I'm still reeling from this heartbreak
and all of the drama
that went all around it.
We were finishing up the album.
So much stuff was happening.
Just. like. everything
was coming to a head.
-[instrumental music playing]
-[bells ding]
["brutal" playing]
♪ I'm so insecure I think
That I'll die before I drink ♪
♪ I'm so caught up in the news
Of who likes me and who hates you ♪
♪ And I'm so tired that I might
Quit my job. start a new life ♪
♪ And they'd all be so disappointed
'Cause who am I if not exploited? ♪
♪ I'm so sick of 17
Where's my **** teenage dream? ♪
♪ If someone tells me one more time
Enjoy your youth. I'm gonna cry ♪
♪ And I don't stick up for myself
I'm anxious and nothing can help ♪
♪ And I wish I'd done this before
And I wish people liked me more ♪
♪ All I did was try my best
This the kinda thanks I get ♪
♪ Unrelentlessly upset ♪
[backing singers] ♪ Oh. oh. oh ♪
♪ They say these are the golden years
But I wish I could disappear ♪
♪ Ego crush is so severe ♪
♪ God. it's brutal out here ♪
♪ I feel like no one wants me
And I hate the way I'm perceived ♪
♪ I only have two real friends
And lately I'm a nervous wreck ♪
♪ 'Cause I love people I don't like
And I hate every song I write ♪
♪ And I'm not cool. and I'm not smart
And I can't even parallel park ♪
♪ All I did was try my best
This the kinda thanks I get ♪
♪ Unrelentlessly upset ♪
[backing singers] ♪ Oh. oh. oh ♪
♪ They say these are the golden years
But I wish I could disappear ♪
♪ Ego crush is so severe ♪
♪ God. it's brutal out here ♪
[guitar solo]
♪ Got a broken ego. broken heart ♪
♪ And God. I don't even know where ♪
♪ To start ♪
[song ends]
[Rodrigo] "hope ur ok" was the last song
I finished on the album.
I really wanted to write a folksy.
singer-songwritery. storytelling song
that ended the album on a hopeful note.
I think even in the midst
of all the heartbreak and pain
that I was talking about in the album.
there's so much hope that goes along
with ending a relationship
and starting a new chapter.
Some of my favorite lyrics are
in that song.
I really like the. "I hope he took
his bad deal and made a royal flush."
I was writing that song in my bedroom
or living room or something.
I remember going into the other room
where my dad was. and I was like.
"Hey. Dad. What's the best card hand
that you can have?"
He goes. "Royal flush." I'm like.
"Perfect. That rhymes with something."
I go back in and. like.
put it in the song.
[Rodrigo]
What do you think about the track listing?
[Nigro laughs] Let's get this in.
We'll talk about it later.
-I have lots of thoughts.
-Okay.
[Nigro] But let's make some.
let's make some steps.
I just-- I just want. um. "brutal"
to be the first track.
-You really do?
-I really do.
[Nigro sighs] Then I have
my work cut out for me this weekend.
I know.
[Nigro coughs]
Wait. Sorry. I wasn't ready.
I wasn't ready. I wasn't ready.
Okay. I'm ready.
♪ And when the clouds won't iron out
And the monsters creep into your house ♪
♪ And every door is hard to close ♪
♪ Well. I hope you know ♪
[recording plays]
[Nigro] Cool. I think-- Cool.
That's good. That's great.
I have a co-- Do like two takes.
and then I have some thoughts.
All right.
I want you to get used to singing it
on the mic.
Do you want the click louder?
Are you fine with--
-Can I have my voice louder?
-Your voice louder?
Yeah. I'm a narcissist.
Hold on.
[speakers: "hope ur ok"
instrumentals playing]
[song ends]
-I think we might have done it. Dan!
-Yeah?
Should I print it?
-Yeah.
-Yeah. You feel good about it?
I'm gonna cry!
[Nigro laughs]
-I'm gonna cry.
-What-- What a sad time. What a sad time.
-It's so weird.
-[Nigro chuckles]
It's so weird. Literally a year of my life
spent in this studio.
[Nigro] I know.
Nothing will ever be the same.
No. Hopefully not.
Hopefully it won't be so sad
in the next **** record.
[Nigro chuckling] It's like--
it's a bittersweet feeling.
[Rodrigo chuckles] I know. So bittersweet.
It's definitely. like.
the-last-day-of-school feeling.
Coming from this place of hurt
and devastation.
and you manage to turn it into something
that you're proud of
and something that other people can enjoy.
and something that brings acceptance
and. like. light and joy into the world.
there's. like. nothing better than that.
And there's. like. not a day
that. like. goes by
that I'm not grateful for that opportunity
and so proud of myself
that I. like. did that too.
I've grown. like. five years' worth…
[chuckles] …in. like. one year.
I think I'm so much of a different person
in a good way.
I think I had to learn how to have. like.
thick skin and how to stand up for myself.
And I think I just wanted to tell people
what was going on
in the depths of my heart
and in the back of my head
in a way that was proud.
I think there's something so powerful
about that. especially as a young woman.
[engine stops]
["hope ur ok" playing]
♪ I knew a boy once when I was small
A towhead blond with eyes of salt ♪
♪ He played the drum
In the marching band ♪
♪ His parents cared more about the Bible
Than being good to their own child ♪
♪ He wore long sleeves 'cause of his dad ♪
♪ And somehow we fell out of touch ♪
♪ Hope he took his bad deal
And made a royal flush ♪
♪ Don't know if I'll see
You again someday ♪
♪ But if you're out there ♪
♪ I hope that you're okay ♪
♪ My middle school friend grew up alone
She raised her brothers on her own ♪
♪ Her parents hated who she loved ♪
♪ She couldn't wait to go to college ♪
♪ She was tired
'Cause she was brought into ♪
♪ A world where family was merely blood ♪
♪ Does she know how proud I am
She was created ♪
♪ With the courage to unlearn
All of their hatred? ♪
♪ We don't talk much
But I just gotta say ♪
♪ I miss you ♪
♪ And I hope that you're okay ♪
♪ Address the letters
To the holes in my butterfly wings ♪
♪ Nothing's forever
Nothing's as good as it seems ♪
♪ And when the clouds won't iron out
And the monsters creep into your house ♪
♪ And every door is hard to close ♪
♪ Well I hope you know how proud I am
You were created ♪
♪ With the courage to unlearn
All of their hatred ♪
♪ And God. I hope
That you're happier today ♪
♪ 'Cause I love you ♪
♪ And I hope that you're okay ♪
[music continuing]
♪ I hope that you're okay ♪
[music continues]
[song ends]
[Rodrigo]
♪ I know you're with somebody new ♪
♪ But I can't write a song
That's not all about you ♪
♪ It's not fair. baby ♪
♪ How come it's so easy ♪
♪ For you to forget everything you said? ♪
♪ Like how I was the best girl
That you'd ever met ♪
♪ Guess you take it back ♪
♪ Should've expected that ♪
♪ But when I say I'm fine
I'm lying really well ♪
♪ 'Cause I can't love anyone else ♪
♪ And I'm so jealous that you can ♪
♪ Scared I'll never feel that again ♪
♪ 'Cause I still can't
Call anyone "baby" ♪
♪ 'Cause "baby" is still you to me ♪
♪ Don't you think I wanna move on too? ♪
♪ But I can't love anyone the way
The way I loved you ♪
[song ends]